### Describe an embedded device ###
A <a href="https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/figure?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0218571.g001">thermal controller</a> for thermal cycling in portable <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polymerase_chain_reaction">polymerase chain reaction (PCR)</a> devices:
- receives/stores a thermal profile
- receives input from temperature detectors (e.g. from resistance temperature detectors - RTD) through an analog-to-digital converter (ADC)
- controls pulse width modulation (PWM) heater modules and fans
- outputs the current temperature, the current step in a thermal profile, elapsed/remaining time in the current step, elapsed/remaining total time.

The temperature must follow a user-specified thermal profile. A <a href="https://i.stack.imgur.com/kWSgk.png">typical PCR thermal profile</a> consists of the initial phase (usually lasts a few minutes at 94-95 °C) followed by a variable number of thermal cycles. Each thermal cycle consists of a denaturation phase (typically 15-60 seconds at 94-95 °C), an annealing phase (typically 15-45 seconds at 45-60 °C), and an extension phase (typically 45-90 seconds at 65-75 °C). After the specified number of cycles, a final elongation phase (typically 7-10 minutes at 70-75 °C) follows. At the end, a low tempreture (typically 4-16 °C) is maintained until a stop signal is received from the user (final hold).

PCR cyclers are available in different form factors. An example of a desktop PCR cycler can be found <a href="https://www.sargentwelch.com/store/product/8889666/t100tm-thermal-cycler">here</a>. Ongoing research seeks to design reliable, easy-to-use, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5694917/figure/fig4/">portable devices</a> for deployment in the field.
### Describe how its embedded system works ###
A <a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Black-Printed-Circuit-Board-based-Micro-Polymerase-Hwang-Kim/62b0a8a11876924e050dcdac1fb3f0607518a490/figure/0">PCR thermal controller</a> is a single-user system. It receives a thermal profile configuration through LCD touch screen, USB or by loading a stored procedure from flash memory. The execution of a thermal profile is started from LCD touch screen or with a push button. The software controls the temperature through PWM heater modules and fans. The software must keep track of the current and the next steps in the thermal profile. The progress information about the execution of the thermal profile is displayed on the LCD screen. A user can stop the execution of a thermal profile from LCD touch screen.
### What design challenges does it present? ###
- *Throughput* - a typical PCR thermal controller can run on a 8-bit microprocessor.
- *Response* - the system must ensure fast step transitions through the thermal profile while standing-by for valid user input (e.g. a command to stop profile execution).
- *Testability* - although the gross output of a thermal controller can be measured with external diagnostic devices (thermometers, timers), simulating and testing all possible unusual situations/corner cases in a laboratory setting would be impossible and/or impractical. An embedded software developer, therefore, must follow specific design patterns (e.g. separating hardware-dependent from hardware-independent code) and rely on manufacturer's toolchain to be able to automate testing the embedded software including testing for possible unusual situations. Devices deployed in health care setting require an appropriate certification.
- *Debugability* - an embedded software developer must rely on manufacturer's toolchain to debug the software. For example, Microchip Technology provides a trademarked In-Circuit Serial Programming™ (ICSP™) solution, an In-Circuit Debugger (ICD), and an Integrated On-Chip Debugger.
- *Reliability* - a system deployed in health care settings must ensure a correct and timely execution of a given termal profile OR indicate clearly an error state (e.g. power off, hardware failure). The controller needs a way to identify the failure even if the power went off unexpectedly. On the next start up, the system must indicate the failure to the user and restore a functional state.
- *Memory Space* - A <a href="https://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/PIC18F27Q43">typical microcontroller for PCR thermal controllers</a> features up to 128 KB of Program Flash Memory, up to 8 MB of Data SRAM Memory, and 1024 Bytes Data EEPROM.
- *Program Installation* requires special tools to get the software into the flash memory during development or into EEPROM in production.
- *Power Consumption* - designing a portable PCR system requires additional effort from the software developer side to reduce the power consumption by the system.
- *Cost* - may drive the choice of hardware for devices designed for large-scale deployment in resource-limited settings (e.g. as part of a response to a large infectious disease outbreak). Yet, deployment in resource-limited settings may require engineering additional features to account for unusual situations, e.g. a reserve source of power to account for higher likelihood of power failures.
